[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There is a new species of
human that's being birthed
at this time.
We might look the
same on the outside.
The DNA is changing
on the inside.
And with that change, we
have tremendously enhanced
immune systems.
We have cells that
regenerate over 100 times
faster than we've
ever seen before.
And it appears that
this change of DNA
is in response to
the great challenges
that this time in
history is offering us.
>> If you're like me, you've
been very confused lately
because you look at
programs about UFOs,
you hear predictions from all
kinds of psychics that are
in the papers that say the world
is going to change dramatically
and it could happen
like any minute.
We've heard that Denver
may be a beach town.
And we're all scared.
But we have help for you today.
We have a very important
author by the name
of Gregg Braden, who has
written a book called
"Walking Between the Worlds."
Welcome.
>> It's a pleasure to
be here, thank you.
>> Greg, I think the subtitle
of your book is an interesting
subtitle.
You say it is the
science of compassion.
>> Yes.
As I began developing
this information,
I had a lot of questions.
People and audiences
would ask me,
how can you use the words
science and compassion
in the same sentence?
Because for so many people
in recent times in the west,
compassion is this
nebulous concept that
sometimes eludes our grasp.
And what I've found, this book,
"The Science of Compassion"
is a very small piece of a much
broader body of information
that apparently was very
well known until about 1,700
years ago, when tremendous
amounts of information
were lost in the west.
And prior to 1,700
years ago, compassion
was considered what
today we call a science.
>> So it's not pity.
>> It is not pity.
Webster's dictionary today,
this is very interesting for me,
as I was pulling this
information together,
defines compassion as
a quality of sympathy
that we offer to others
in times of need.
That's a present day definition.
That is very, very
different than the kinds
of compassion that were
demonstrated by the ancients,
such as the ancient Essenes, the
authors of the Dead Sea Scrolls
and the shores of the Dead Sea.
For them, compassion was
a much broader concept.
Rather than something
that you do upon occasion,
such as having this
pity, it was something
that one would become.
Rather than doing
the compassion,
they would live the
compassion day in and day
out in their lives.
>> Is this just like the
Buddhists that talk about
compassion?
>> This is, what a
beautiful question.
It's very interesting,
because there are certainly
Buddhist sounding concepts
of the many different ways
that we may define compassion.
One way derived through
these ancient texts
is that compassion is a union
of thought, feeling and emotion.
These are the three
qualities identified
in the ancient tradition.
>> Say that again.
>> Allow us.
Well, they allow us this
experience in our world.
Thought, feeling and emotion.
>> Emotion.
>> OK, and from the
perspective of the ancients,
pre 1,700 years ago, it's
through these qualities
of thought, feeling and emotion
that we experience this waking
dream that we call life.
In the presence of one another,
we share this time together.
>> Seems very real to us.
>> Well, it is very real.
And from their
perspective, and compassion
was a quality of each of those,
a thought without attachment
to the outcome of the thought.
It is a very Buddhist concept,
it sounds very Buddhist.
In other words, trusting
in the process of life
with discernment as we move
through the process of life.
Feeling without
distorted feeling.
So many of our
feelings, the question
is do we even really know what
our feelings are saying to us.
Are we so conditioned through
the filters of the experiences
in our lives that
our feelings become,
begun to say something
very different to us
today than they
have in the past.
>> Greg, what have you
got to do here now,
the science of compassion?
What has this got to do
with our being frightened
about the whole state of
California being swept
into the ocean and Denver
being, Montana being a boundary
of some of the predictions?
What does that
got to do with it?
>> Well, from the perspective
of the ancients, and again,
context is so
important, Corinne,
those who are hearing those
predictions in a void,
without a broader context
within which to understand them,
certainly there's
fear and uncertainty.
Within a broader
perspective, almost
universally, ancient
traditions remind us
that this is a unique,
rare, precious moment
in human history where
something unprecedented is
about to unfold within the
lives of every human living
in this world.
And in that something,
we have this opportunity
to redefine the
parameters of our lives
and how we respond to the
great challenges of life.
So for so many people, I'm
sure you see them on your show
and I see them in
my programs, they're
experiencing the
greatest challenges
that they've ever experienced of
health and emotion and finance.
And statistics tell
us precisely that.
That we are experiencing
the greatest challenges ever
of human history.
Compassion, the
science of compassion,
is an opportunity
to redefine what
those parameters, what those
challenges in our lives
mean to us.
On the one hand, now to
answer your question,
on the other hand, new
research is demonstrating
that the way that we you think,
feel and emote in here actually
has an impact on the way
the world unfolds out there.
And that is an awesome, awesome
statement to able to make.
>> So my girlfriend,
for example,
sold everything
she had in Chicago,
because this is one of the
areas she said is at great risk.
She moved to New Mexico, bought
100 acres up in the mountains,
so she's not going to die there.
It's also inspiring
a lot of fear.
>> The question is,
it's a very good point.
The question is, what is
the intent of the move?
And I'll share with
you an example.
In the early '90s there
were many predictions
that northern California,
San Francisco, for example,
would see some great Earth
changes with a lot of water
inundating the landmass.
There's a gentleman
in one of our programs
that was afraid of
dying in a flood
and losing everything he owned.
So he moved that year, 1993,
he moved to northern Missouri
very close to the shores,
the Missouri River.
In 1993 the Midwest
saw the worst floods
that they've ever seen.
He lost everything
he had to a flood.
And it reminds us of the tenant
that we all already understand,
that the patterns follow
us wherever we go.
Certainly different
ways they play out,
different people,
different circumstances.
And the same patterns play out.
So the fear that the
gentleman that I'm
referencing that he
felt in California,
that same fear followed him.
He made the move out
of fear rather than out
of the discernment
of where he really
is at his best in this world.
And I believe that's the
guideline that's key.
Where do you feel your best?
Where are you most vital?
That tells you
where in this world
maybe to geographically
place your body,
rather than moving from
the fear and the fear
mirrored in many
other people of what's
about to unfold in this
world, on the one hand.
And on the other hand
is the new research
that is showing that
thought, feeling
and emotion within
our bodies actually
have a linear, digitally
measurable impact
on the quality of our life
outside of our bodies.
Thoughts, feelings and emotions
affect weather patterns.
The implications are awesome.
Now they're related to
actual geological phenomenon.
Seismic phenomenon
are actually related
to the patterning of thoughts,
feelings and emotions.
I have this conversation
with my mom all the time.
Where does she live?
>> My mother lives
in northern Missouri.
And I live in northern
New Mexico, by the way.
Your friend might
be my neighbor.
>> She probably is.
>> For all we know.
>> Yeah.
>> And mom said, she asked me.
She goes, how can thought,
feeling and emotion,
how can they affect our
world, our world's a thing,
and thoughts,
feelings and emotions
are this nebulous concept.
In the West, we've been
conditioned to believe that
until very recently.
We now know that thoughts,
feelings and emotions create
a chemistry in our bodies.
They create a
vibratory template,
a pattern that can be measured
outside of our bodies that
has a direct effect on plants,
trees, rocks, weather patterns.
In the laboratory now,
this has been demonstrated,
the implications for six
billion people on the planet
are certainly staggering
and vast, to say the least.
>> So you're saying if I
get myself in a good mood,
where my thoughts, feelings
and emotions are very benign,
that I can stop
the Earth changes,
that I can stop the ice cap and
the North Pole from melting?
>> I'm not saying that we can
necessarily stop any changes
from unfolding.
What I am saying is, that if we
believe, as the ancients remind
us, of the six billion or so
people, bodies in this world,
there's only one of us here.
There's a single consciousness.
And that consciousness
is very closely related
to the consciousness
of our Earth.
From that perspective,
Earth is a barometer,
it's a feedback mechanism
indicating to us what's
happening within our bodies.
And within our bodies,
we're mirroring what's
happening upon the Earth.
And as we choose to redefine
our patterns through compassion,
then those changes are mirrored
in the world around us.
>> Well, that's quite a
responsibility we have,
to feel good about ourselves and
feel good about everybody else,
isn't it?
>> It's an opportunity,
tremendous opportunity, it is.
>> We're talking here to
Gregg Braden about his book,
"Walking Between the Worlds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Fascinating topic.
You don't want to
miss one word of it.
Stay with us, we'll
be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We're talking to
Gregg Braden here,
about his book "Walking
Between the Worlds."
Interesting topic.
And the subtitle, called
"The Science of Compassion."
Gregg, welcome back.
>> It's a pleasure to be here.
Thank you, Corinne.
>> I want to go back to
something you said a little
earlier that we kind
of just let go by.
>> Yes.
>> And that was, you said that
all kinds of information was
lost 1,700 years ago.
What was lost?
>> 1,700 years ago, what we
know is that huge elements
of our most sacred texts, text
detailing our heritage in this
world, our relationship
to one another,
our history to the cosmos, were
taken out of a very loosely
based body of information that
later led into the development
of what we call
the biblical texts.
We know at least 25 books
were removed from those texts
in the year 325 AD.
>> Who remove them?
>> Well, it was in
Constantinople during the time
the Emperor Constantine.
And I get a lot of
questions about this.
And to make a long story
very short, what I'll say
is, I believe it was
well-intentioned.
At that time, many of
the texts were confusing,
they were redundant.
They were, some so
mystical, that it
was felt that the common man
could not understand them.
So at least 25 biblical texts,
20 supporting documents,
so 45 altogether, were removed.
Those that were left were
condensed, rearranged
into the texts
that we see today,
which many people will say is
a little confusing in places
or looks like
something is missing.
And maybe this is some
insight into the reason why.
>> So does this have anything
to do with the Dead Sea Scrolls
that have been?
>> Certainly, certainly.
One of the reasons
I believe some
of the great libraries
of our history,
the Dead Sea Scrolls,
the Nag Hammadi library,
also discovered in 1947 at
the same time as the Dead Sea
Scrolls, they were authored by
kind of a mysterious elusive
sect known as the Essenes
today, of whom we know
Jesus of Nazareth was an
Essenes master, as well
as Moses and many other
of the ancient prophets.
And these texts, at
very best, Corinne, this
is so fascinating, at best,
and I ask this question,
is it possible that our view
of history and technology,
the way we developed our
science and our interpersonal
relationships, even
the way we love
one another could be based on an
incomplete body of information?
And it appears
the answer is yes.
As well as we've done
with what we have,
now by going back
into these texts,
we're able to fill
in the missing pieces
and develop a much broader
view of this time in history,
the outrageous phenomenon that
are unfolding in our world,
and our role in what we may
do within these phenomenon.
>> So is this thought that
you're bringing us today,
that thought, feeling and
emotion can literally change
the outside.
>> Yes.
>> Environment.
>> Are you saying that that
is coming from these forgotten
texts?
>> Many of the texts,
if I could again,
make a long story very
short, across all the texts,
all the interpretations,
all the translations,
if we condensed them down
into some key concepts,
there are four main tenets
that were lost to the West.
And in that losing,
we lost the context
within which to view
our world today.
And those four are simply that
this is a unique time in Earth,
in human history.
Something very
unusual, very rare
is occurring on Earth right now.
It's an opportunity to
redefine the very parameters
of our lives.
It's the first tenant.
>> It says that in the text?
>> It says that this time,
at this time in history,
we will go through
a cyclic change.
And the cycles are
so far apart, that we
don't have a conscious
recollection of the last time
the cycle occurred.
So almost universally, ancient
traditions point to this.
The Indigenous North American,
South American ancient texts,
calendars, they remind
us that the six billion
or so people in the world,
there's only one of us here.
That one of us is
barreling down this road
toward the time the
ancients called the shift
of the ages, this change.
They remind us that there
is an ancient science,
perhaps one of the
oldest sciences, that we
call compassion.
And compassion is what
allows us to gracefully move
through the changes
that are being offered
to us at this time in history.
And the last of
the four tenants,
is that we have had
always, and have
today, direct access
to the creative forces
within our world and
within our bodies.
And it is a highly
sophisticated technology
that was lost to the West,
and inner technology,
if I may use that
term, 1,700 years ago.
>> One of the things that's
kind of mind-boggling I think
for me, and for most of us
who are watching this show,
to think that perhaps we can
change on an individual basis
the environment around us.
But let's go to something
that's more individualized here.
In your book, you say that
there is scientific evidence now
that we can actually
change our own DNA
by these feelings of love.
>> Yes.
>> And compassion.
>> Well, this is what, this
statement now that you've just
shared to lead us into this,
that mirrors this Western
belief that there is a
difference between us
and our outer world.
And that's why it is hard
for us to understand that.
The ancients saw no
separation between our inner
and outer worlds.
What happens in here
is mirrored out here.
What happens in our outer
world is mirrored in here.
By virtue of that,
they understood
that as we refine, as we hone
our purity, the purest nature
of who we are in this
world from within,
that our outer world then
mirrors that back to us.
And as we are
turbulent from within,
then that turbulence is
also mirrored back to us.
Many will attest that that
tendency is playing out
in our world today.
So the new research, yes,
it's bearing this out.
And what I can say is, it's
an outrageous statement,
and my training as a scientist
and as an engineer, what
I'm about to say to
you is outrageous,
and it feels very
good at the same time.
And that is, if we define human
the way that we always have
since we discovered the genetic
code in the early 1950s,
then within our communities
and our families and our homes,
perhaps within our bodies
as we're sitting here
having this
conversation, there is
a new species of human that's
being birthed at this time.
We might look the
same on the outside.
The DNA is changing
on the inside.
And with that change, we
have tremendously enhanced
immune systems.
We have cells that
regenerate over 100 times
faster than we've
ever seen before.
And it appears that
this change of DNA
is in response to
the great challenges
that this time in
history is offering us.
So what scientists, the big
mystery, great mystery of life
science is, why
so much of our DNA
appears to be unused, almost
2/3 of it technically.
Now we're finding rather
than being unused,
perhaps it's dormant
until we achieve
a level of quality of
thought, feeling and emotion.
And now researchers
have digitally
measured that emotion
is the trigger,
it's the switch that turns these
codes off and on in our bodies,
allowing us tremendous
levels of vitality
and the opportunity to
love on levels deeper,
perhaps, we've
ever loved before.
In the broader
context, now here we
are barreling down this road
toward the shift of the ages,
we're experiencing these
tremendous challenges
in our personal lives,
as well as collectively
in our global life.
In response to
that, we are being
pushed to the very
edge of who we
believe we are, and sometimes
right over that edge.
>> I'll say.
>> As many will attest to.
And that appears to
be sometimes what
it takes for us to reach within
to this ancient technology,
this ancient
memory, this wisdom,
to become the greatest
expression of humankind,
and to love on levels
deeper than perhaps we've
ever loved before.
>> Many of the people
in this audience have,
are familiar with the idea that
when you've had a terrible loss
in your life, it lowers
your immune system.
And many people get
sick or die after losing
a spouse or a child or
some kind of terrible loss.
>> Sure.
>> What you're saying here,
is that by controlling
your thoughts and your
emotions and your feelings,
you can actually prevent your
immune system from breaking
down.
>> What the ancients
say to us very clearly,
is that our bodies are a
mirror of six parameters.
Thoughts, feeling, emotion,
breath, nutrient and movement.
Thought, feeling
and emotion combine.
Rather than control
them, we're invited
to redefine the quality
of thoughts, feelings
and emotions.
And in doing so, to redefine
the experience of our lives.
So the loss that
you're speaking about,
that loss in redefining
what it means to us,
our body chemistry then
mirrors that change back to us
through the science
of compassion
as we witness the
loss, as a greater
possibility in our lives and the
lives of those who have left.
Literally, our body pH changes.
Our immunity responds to that.
And this is, we all know this.
This is being said in
many different ways.
For perhaps the first time now,
it's being digitally measured.
The first place I saw it
measured was in HIV patients
and in the global blood study
that was done in the mid 1990s.
It was the first time.
>> Gregg, this this is
the most amazing book.
There is so much in
here, that we can barely
touch the whole thing.
I really have to encourage
people here to read this book,
because it is so
deep and so detailed.
We've been talking here
to a brilliant man,
as you probably have noticed.
His name is Gregg Braden.
He has written a book called
"Walking Between the Worlds,
The Science of Compassion."
Like I always tell
you around here,
we bring you miracle
on this show.
Keep coming back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]